CS 350 / CS 491 Web Application Development
Fall 2015
Homework 0
Brian Gunn
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All student submissions should be individually written, not copied from sources. Submissions with
excessive quoting of sources will have points deducted.

1. For the following products, to what brand do you have access, what is its version number, and what is the
latest available?
a. Web Server
This is very non-specific. "Web Server" could refer to hardware, software, or a combination of both. 
At layer 7, we have different web server application software such as apache and node.js, ASP.NET, etc.
At the hardware level, a web server is a computer that usually has redundant power supplies and network connections to provide redundancy and maximum uptime.
b. JavaScript
Modern browsers implement a javascript interpreter to provide dynamic client-side functionality.
The latest revision of the JavaScript standard is ECMAScript 6.
Javascript can be executed in any modern browser, such as mozilla firefox or google chrome.
Node.js can be used with javascript to perform many tasks.
The latest stable release of Node.js is 0.12.7
c. PhP
PHP is freely available. The latest stable version is 5.6.12
Servlets are available on JavaEE 7. The most recevent version of the Servlet API is 3.1
e. ASP.Net
The stable release of ASP.NET is 4.5
f. Ruby
The stable release of Ruby is 2.2.3
g. Rails
The stable release of Ruby on Rails is 4.2.4, from 4 days ago!

2. Search the web for information on the history of the following technologies, and write a brief overview
of those histories.
a. TCP/IP
The development of TCP/IP was funded by DARPA, so it is also referred to as the DoD model. 
Nowadays the TCP/IP protocol suite is standardized and maintained by the Interent Engineering Task Force (IETF).
b. SGM
Standard Generalized Markup Language (ISO 8879) is the standard that is extended to HTML and XML.
SGML was standardized in 1986.
c. HTML
The most recent version of the HTML standard is HTML5.
d. Arpanet
The Advanced Research Projects Agency Network was a packet switching network funded by the United States Department of Defence.
ARPANET provided the foundation for the creation of the internet.
e. BITNET
BITNET was a computer network for universities that functioned as a point-to-point network.
To join the BITNET, a university needed to lease a phone line, buy modems, and allow other institutions to connect without a chargeback.
f. XML
Extensible Markup Language is a general purpose markup language defined by W3C.
XML can be used 
g. JavaScript
JavaScript is a core technology of the web. JavaScript was originially implemented in Netscape Navigator, but is now supported by all modern browsers.
h. Flash
Adobe Flash was commonly used for streaming video, web games, and a variety of other applciations implemented in ActionScript.
Flash has many features for animation. Use of adobe flash has largely declined.
i. Servlets
Java Servlets are used to implement web server features similar to PHP or ASP.NET on the Java platform.
j. JSP
JSP is very similar to PHP, except it uses the Java programming language. JSPs are translated to servlets at runtime.
k. JSF
JavaServer Faces is used to build user interfaces within web applications.
l. Rails
Ruby on Rails is a web application framework implemented with the Ruby programming language.
Rails is under very active development and is a popular framework among silicon valley hipsters.
m. Ajax
AJAX stands for Asynchronous Javascript and XML. 
AJAX is a group of technologies that allow webpages to be more dynamic and responsive without needing to refresh a static page. 
AJAX can be used to query the DOM to dynamically update webpages.
JQuery is a popular javascript framework that implements AJAX features.